{'name': 'Drama', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ADA1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms and techniques, using material from a wide range of sources and cultures. Students will use the elements of drama to examine situations and issues that are relevant to their lives. Students will create, perform, discuss, and analyse drama, and then reflect on the experiences to develop an understanding of themselves, the art form, and the world around them.'}
{'name': 'Drama - ESL', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ADA1O8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms and techniques, using material from a wide range of sources and cultures. Students will use the elements of drama to examine situations and issues that are relevant to their lives. Students will create, perform, discuss, and analyse drama, and then reflect on the experiences to develop an understanding of themselves, the art form, and the world around them.  Guidance Message  This course is for ESL A and B level students only.'}
{'name': 'Instrumental Music - Band', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'AMI1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of a woodwind, brass or percussion instrument in a band setting.'}
{'name': 'Instrumental Music - Band Beginner', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'AMI1O2', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of a woodwind, brass or percussion instrument in a band setting.  Guidance Message  Introductory course.'}
{'name': 'Music - Vocal/Choral', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'AMV1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed for students wishing to learn about singing and participate in a choir setting.'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'AVI1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is exploratory in nature, offering an overview of visual arts as a foundation for further study. Students will become familiar with the elements and principles of design and the expressive qualities of various materials by using a range of media, processes, techniques, and styles. Students will use the creative and critical analysis processes and will interpret art within a personal, contemporary, and historical context.'}
{'name': 'Drama', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ADA2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms, conventions, and techniques. Students will explore a variety of dramatic sources from various cultures and representing a range of genres. Students will use the elements of drama in creating and communicating through dramatic works. Students will assume responsibility for decisions made in the creative and collaborative processes and will reflect on their experiences.'}
{'name': 'Guitar Music', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AMG2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course develops guitar techniques and the rudiments of music. Students learn to read music, to play chords, and to develop techniques that can be used in playing classical and popular music.'}
{'name': 'Instrumental Music - Band', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AMI2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of a woodwind, brass or percussion instrument in a band setting.  Guidance Message  Must take AMI2O1 and Repertoire Music together (AMR2O1). AMR2O1 will be added to your course selection by your counsellor.  Pre-requisites AMI1O'}
{'name': 'Keyboard Music', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AMK2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus on the skills specific to the piano keyboard and will learn authentic repertoire.'}
{'name': 'Repertoire', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AMR2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of music repertoire.  Guidance Message  Please note students must be enrolled in the Core Music Course (AMI) to take the Repertoire Music Course (AMR).  Co-requisites AMI2O1'}
{'name': 'Music - Vocal/Choral', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AMV2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed for students wishing to learn about singing and participate in a choir setting.'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'AVI2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to develop their skills in producing and presenting art by introducing them to new ideas, materials, and processes for artistic exploration and experimentation. Students will apply the elements and principles of design when exploring the creative process. Students will use the critical analysis process to reflect on and interpret art within a personal, contemporary, and historical context.'}
{'name': 'Drama', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ADA3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course requires students to create and perform in dramatic presentations. Students will analyse, interpret, and perform dramatic works from various cultures and time periods. Students will research various acting styles and conventions that could be used in their presentations, and analyse the functions of playwrights, directors, actors, designers, technicians, and audiences.  Pre-requisites ADA1O1 ADA1O8 ADA2O1 ADA2O8'}
{'name': 'Drama - Production', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ADD3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of performance and presentation of dramatic material.  Pre-requisites ADA1O1 ADA1O8 ADA2O1 ADA2O8'}
{'name': 'Guitar Music', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AMG3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course develops guitar techniques and the rudiments of music. Students learn to read music, to play chords, and to develop techniques that can be used in playing classical and popular music.  Pre-requisites AMG1O AMG2O'}
{'name': 'Instrumental Music - Band', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AMI3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of a woodwind, brass or percussion instrument in a band setting.  Guidance Message  Must take AMI3M1 and Repertoire Music together (AMR3M1). AMR3M1 will be added to your course selection by your counsellor.  Pre-requisites AMI1O1 AMI2O1'}
{'name': 'Keyboard Music', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AMK3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus on the skills specific to the piano keyboard and will learn authentic repertoire.  Pre-requisites AMK2O1'}
{'name': 'Repertoire', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AMR3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of music repertoire.  Guidance Message  Please note students must be enrolled in the Core Music Course (AMI) to take the Repertoire Music Course (AMR).  Co-requisites AMI3M1'}
{'name': 'Music - Vocal/Choral', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AMV3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed for students wishing to learn about singing and participate in a choir setting.  Pre-requisites AMV1O AMV2O AMI2O AMG2O'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AVI3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop their knowledge and skills in visual arts. Students will use the creative process to explore a wide range of themes through studio work that may include drawing, painting, sculpting, and printmaking, as well as the creation of collage, multimedia works, and works using emerging technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process when evaluating their own work and the work of others. The course may be delivered as a comprehensive program or through a program focused on a particular art form (e.g. photography, video, computer graphics, information design).  Pre-requisites AVI1O1 AVI2O1 AVI1O8'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Crafts', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWA3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the relationship between craftsmanship and design and the use of materials such as clay, fibres, fabrics, glass, wood and metal as creative art forms. The study of the work of master craftpersons, past and present and across a variety of cultures, will be included.'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Visual Design (Yearbook)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWD3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will study in depth how the elements and principles of design are applied in various art forms. This course will vary from school to school according to the facilities, materials and staffing.  Guidance Message  This is the Yearbook Course. You will be designing the Yearbook in this course!  Pre-requisites AVI1O1 AVI1O8 AVI2O1'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Visual Design', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWD3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will study in depth how the elements and principles of design are applied in various art forms. This course will vary from school to school according to the facilities, materials and staffing.'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Photography', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWQ3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will learn about traditional photography as an expressive art form. The history of art as it relates to photography will be included and the role of digital imaging and manipulation may be included in the studio projects.  Pre-requisites AVI1O AVI2O'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Photography', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWQ3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will learn about traditional photography as an expressive art form. The history of art as it relates to photography will be included and the role of digital imaging and manipulation may be included in the studio projects.  Pre-requisites AVI1O AVI2O AVI3M'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Film/Video', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWR3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on photo-electronic media and their application in film and video. Students will study the theory, history, practices and production of film-making.  Pre-requisites AVI1O AVI2O'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Film/Video', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'AWR3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on photo-electronic media and their application in film and video. Students will study the theory, history, practices and production of film-making.  Pre-requisites AVI1O AVI2O'}
{'name': 'Drama', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ADA4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course requires students to experiment individually and collaboratively with forms and conventions of both drama and theatre from various cultures and time periods. Students will interpret dramatic literature and other texts and media sources while learning about various theories of directing and acting. Students will examine the significance of dramatic arts in various cultures, and will analyse how the knowledge and skills developed in drama are related to their personal skills, social awareness, and goals beyond secondary school.  Pre-requisites ADA3M1'}
{'name': 'Drama - Production', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ADD4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of performance and presentation of dramatic material.  Pre-requisites ADD3O1 ADD3M1 ADA3M1 ADA4M1'}
{'name': 'Guitar Music', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMG4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course develops guitar techniques and the rudiments of music. Students learn to read music, to play chords, and to develop techniques that can be used in playing classical and popular music.  Pre-requisites AMG3M1'}
{'name': 'Instructional Instrum Music-Band', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMI4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of a woodwind, brass or percussion instrument in a band setting.  Guidance Message  Must take AMI4M1 and Repertoire Music together (AMR4M1). AMR4M1 will be added to your course selection by your counsellor.  Pre-requisites AMI3M1'}
{'name': 'Keyboard Music', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMK4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus on the skills specific to the piano keyboard and will learn authentic repertoire.  Pre-requisites AMK3M AMX3M AMX4M'}
{'name': 'Repertoire', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMR4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will focus their work on the various aspects of musical performance through the study of music repertoire.  Guidance Message  Please note students must be enrolled in the Core Music Course (AMI) to take the Repertoire Music Course (AMR).  Co-requisites AMI4M1'}
{'name': 'Music - Advanced Guitar', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMU4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to enhance their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music. Students will perform traditional, commercial, and art music, and will respond with insight to live and recorded performances. Students will enhance their understanding of the function of music in society and the impact of music on themselves and various communities and cultures. Students will analyse how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers.  Pre-requisites AMG4M'}
{'name': 'Music - Vocal/Choral', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AMV4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed for students wishing to learn about singing and participate in a choir setting.  Pre-requisites AMV3M AMP3M AMI3M AMG3M'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AVI4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on enabling students to refine their use of the creative process when creating and presenting two- and three-dimensional art works using a variety of traditional and emerging media and technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process to deconstruct art works and explore connections between art and society. The studio program enables students to explore a range of materials, processes, and techniques that can be applied in their own art production. Students will also make connections between various works of art in personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural contexts.  Pre-requisites AVI3M1 AVI3O1'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Visual Design', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AWD4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on enabling students to refine their use of the creative process when creating and presenting two- and three-dimensional art works using a variety of traditional and emerging media and technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process to deconstruct art works and explore connections between art and society. The studio program enables students to explore a range of materials, processes, and techniques that can be applied in their own art production. Students will also make connections between various works of art in personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural contexts. This course focuses on Visual Design.  Pre-requisites AVI3M'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Information/Consumer Design', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AWE4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will learn how the elements and principles of design are used to communicate through areas such as commercial art, advertising, graphic design, packaging design and television. A critical look at the careers and work of both contemporary and past professional designers will complement studio projects.  Pre-requisites AVI3O1 AVI3M1 AWD3M1'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Photography', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AWQ4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will learn about traditional photography as an expressive art form. The history of art as it relates to photography will be included and the role of digital imaging and manipulation may be included in the studio projects.  Pre-requisites AWQ3O AWQ3M AVI3M AVI4M'}
{'name': 'Visual Arts - Film/Video', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'AWR4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on photo-electronic media and their application in film and video. Students will study the theory, history, practices and production of film-making.  Pre-requisites AWR3M1 AWR3O1 AVI3M1 AVI4M1'}
{'name': 'Issues in Canadian Geography', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'CGC1D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course examines interrelationships within and between Canadas natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live.'}
{'name': 'Issues in Canadian Geography - Gifted', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'CGC1D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE: This course examines interrelationships within and between Canadas natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live.  Guidance Message  This is a GIFTED course.'}
{'name': 'Issues in Canadian Geography - ESL', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'CGC1D8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This ESL sensitive course examines interrelationships within and between Canadas natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live.  Guidance Message  This course is for ESLC, D, or E students.'}
{'name': 'Canadian History Since World War I', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'CHC2D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': "This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canada's evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914."}
{'name': 'Canadian History Since World War 1.', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'CHC2D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': "GIFTED COURSE.  This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canada’s evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914.  Guidance Message  GIFTED STUDENT'S ONLY."}
{'name': 'Canadian History since World War 1 (ESL sensitive)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'CHC2D8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'ESL Sensitive Students: This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canadas evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914.'}
{'name': 'Regional Geography - The Geography of Food', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'CGD3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores the geographic systems and patterns of food focusing on issues of production, manufacture, distribution and consumption. Students will investigate the interactions of natural and human systems that create the conditions for diverse environmental, economic and cultural factors that influence production and consumption of food. Students will use a variety of geotechnologies and inquiry and communication methods to analyse and evaluate geographic issues and communicate their findings.  Pre-requisites CGC1D CGC1P'}
{'name': 'Travel and Tourism: a Geographic Perspective', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'CGG3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on issues related to travel and tourism within and between various regions of the world. Students will investigate unique environmental, sociocultural, economic, and political characteristics of selected world regions. They will explore travel patterns and trends as well as tensions related to tourism, and will predict future tourism destinations. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate the impact of the travel industry on natural environments and human communities.  Pre-requisites CGC1D CGC1P'}
{'name': 'Understanding Canadian Law', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'CLU3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores Canadian law, with a focus on legal issues that are relevant to the lives of people in Canada. Students will gain an understanding of rights and freedoms in Canada, our legal system, and family, contract, employment, tort, and criminal law. Students will use case studies and apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process to develop legal reasoning skills and to formulate and communicate informed interpretations of legal issues, and they will develop the ability to advocate for new laws.  Pre-requisites CHC2D CHC2P'}
{'name': 'The Environment and Resource Manage', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'CGR4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores interactions between the natural and human environment, with a particular focus on the impact of human activity on various ecosystems. Students will explore resource management and sustainability practices, as well as related government policy and international protocols. Applying the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, students will investigate the relationship between people and the natural environment and will propose approaches for developing more sustainable relationships, including environmentally responsible actions that support stewardship.  Pre-requisites ENG3C ENG3U ENG4C ENG4U'}
{'name': 'World Issues: A Geographic Analysis', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'CGW4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course looks at the global challenge of creating a more sustainable and equitable world. Students will explore a range of issues involving environmental, economic, social, and geopolitical interrelationships, and will examine governmental policies related to these issues. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate these complex issues, including their impact on natural and human communities around the world.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CGF3M HRT3M HSP3U CHW3M CIE3M HZB3M HZT4U HHS4U HSB4U HFA4U CIA4U CPW4U CLN4U HHG4M'}
{'name': 'Analysing Current Economic Issues', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'CIA4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course examines current national and global economic trends and policies from diverse perspectives. Students will explore the impact of choices that individuals and institutions, including governments, make in responding to local, national, and global economic issues such as globalization and global economic inequalities, trade agreements, national debt, taxation, social spending, and consumer debt. Students will apply the concepts of economic thinking and the economic inquiry process, including economic models, to investigate, and develop informed opinions about, current economic issues and to help them make reasoned economic decisions.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HSB4U HHS4U HFA4U CPW4U HZT4U HHG4M CGW4U'}
{'name': 'Canadian and International Law', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'CLN4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores a range of contemporary legal issues and how they are addressed in both Canadian and international law. Students will develop their understanding of the principles of Canadian and international law when exploring rights and freedoms within the context of topics such as religion, security, cyberspace, immigration, crimes against humanity, and environmental protection. Students will apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process when investigating these issues in both Canadian and international contexts, and they will develop legal reasoning skills and an understanding of conflict resolution in the area of international law.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HZT4U HFA4U HHS4U CPW4U CIA4U HHG4M CGW4U'}
{'name': 'Canadian and World Politics', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'CPW4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores various perspectives on issues in Canadian and world politics. Students will explore political decision-making and ways in which individuals, stakeholder groups, and various institutions, including different levels of government, multinational corporations, and non-governmental organizations, respond to and work to influence domestic and international developments. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate current political policies, issues, and events, and to develop and communicate informed opinions about them.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HSB4U HHS4U HFA4U HZT4U CIA4U CLN4U HHG4M CGW4U'}
{'name': 'Civics and Careers - ESL', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'CIVCA8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GLC2O8, CHV2O8  Civics:  This course explores rights and responsibilities associated with being an active citizen in a democratic society. Students will explore issues of civic importance such as healthy schools, community planning, environmental responsibility, and the influence of social media, while developing their understanding of the role of civic engagement and of political processes in the local, national, and/or global community. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate, and express informed opinions about, a range of political issues and developments that are both of significance in todays world and of personal interest to them.  GLC2O1  This course teaches students how to develop and achieve personal goals for future learning, work, and community involvement. Students will assess their interests, skills, and characteristics and investigate current economic and workplace trends,work opportunities, and ways to search for work.The course explores postsecondary learning and career options, prepares students for managing work and life transitions, and helps students focus on their goals through the development of a career plan.  Guidance Message  This course is for ESL students only.'}
{'name': 'Civics and Careers', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'CIVCAR', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GLC2O1, CHV2O1  Guidance Message  Civics and Careers is a full course (CHV2O1 - 0.5 credit; GLC2O1 - 0.5 credit).'}
{'name': 'Introduction to Computer Studies', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ICS2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to computer programming. Students will plan and write simple computer programs by applying fundamental programming concepts, and learn to create clear and maintainable internal documentation. They will also learn to manage a computer by studying hardware configurations, software selection, operating system functions, networking, and safe computing practices. Students will also investigate the social impact of computer technologies, and develop an understanding of environmental and ethical issues related to the use of computers.'}
{'name': 'Introduction to Computer Programming', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ICS3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to computer programming concepts and practices. Students will write and test computer programs, using various problem-solving strategies. They will learn the fundamentals of program design and apply a software development life-cycle model to a software development project. Students will also learn about computer environments and systems, and explore environmental issues related to computers, safe computing practices, emerging technologies, and postsecondary opportunities in computer-related fields.'}
{'name': 'Introduction to Computer Studies', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ICS3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to computer science. Students will design software independently and as part of a team, using industry-standard programming tools and applying the software development life-cycle model. They will also write and use subprograms within computer programs. Students will develop creative solutions for various types of problems as their understanding of the computing environment grows. They will also explore environmental and ergonomic issues, emerging research in computer science, and global career trends in computer-related fields.'}
{'name': 'Computer Programming', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ICS4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course further develops students computer programming skills. Students will learn object-oriented programming concepts, create object-oriented software solutions, and design graphical user interfaces. Student teams will plan and carry out a software development project using industry-standard programming tools and proper project management techniques. Students will also investigate ethical issues in computing and expand their understanding of environmental issues, emerging technologies, and computer-related careers.  Guidance Message  ACCI does not require you to take ICS3C1 as a prerequisite to this course.'}
{'name': 'Computer Science', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ICS4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills in computer science. Students will use modular design principles to create complex and fully documented programs, according to industry standards. Student teams will manage a large software development project, from planning through to project review. Students will also analyse algorithms for effectiveness. They will investigate ethical issues in computing and further explore environmental issues, emerging technologies, areas of research in computer science, and careers in the field.  Pre-requisites ICS3U1'}
{'name': 'Cooperative Education - 2 Credit', 'grade': '11', 'course': '2COOP', 'credit': '2', 'description': 'COOPPM  2 Credit experiential learning placement.  Guidance Message  Application must be completed for cooperative education placement. Please see the coop teacher to determine eligibility.'}
{'name': 'Cooperative Education - 4 Credit', 'grade': '11', 'course': '4COOP', 'credit': '4', 'description': 'COOPAM, COOPPM  4 Credit experiential learning placement.  Guidance Message  Application must be completed for cooperative education placement. Please see the coop teacher to determine eligibility.'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ENG1D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed to develop the oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 academic English course, which leads to university or college preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12.'}
{'name': 'English - Gifted', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ENG1D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE: This course is designed to develop the oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 academic English course, which leads to university or college preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12.  Guidance Message  This is a gifted course.'}
{'name': 'Literacy Skills: Reading & Writing', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ELS2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed to help students strengthen essential reading and writing skills, providing them with the extra literacy support they need in order to graduate. Students will read informational, graphic, and literary texts, with a focus on locating information, identifying main ideas and supporting details, building vocabulary, and consolidating skills in the application of key comprehension strategies. The course will also help students develop core learning strategies.  Guidance Message  Teacher recommendation only.  Pre-requisites ESLDO ESLEO'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ENG2D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 university or college preparation course.  Pre-requisites ENG1D ENG1P ESLDO ESLEO'}
{'name': 'English - Enriched', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ENG2D3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This enriched level course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 university or college preparation course.  Guidance Message  This is an enriched level course. Teacher recommendation required.  Pre-requisites ENG1D1 ENG1D3'}
{'name': 'English - Gifted', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ENG2D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE.  This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 1l university or college preparation course.  Guidance Message  GIFTED STUDENTS ONLY.  Pre-requisites ENG1D6'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ENG3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from Canada and other countries, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 college preparation course.  Pre-requisites ENG2D ENG2P ESLEO'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ENG3E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of contemporary informational, graphic, and literary texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language clearly and accurately in a variety of formal and informal contexts. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 workplace preparation course.  Pre-requisites ENG2L ENG2P'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ENG3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university or college preparation course.  Pre-requisites ENG2D ESLEO'}
{'name': 'English - Enriched', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ENG3U3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This is an enriched level course. This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university or college preparation course.  Pre-requisites ENG2D ESLEO'}
{'name': 'English - Gifted', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'ENG3U6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university or college preparation course. This is a gifted level course.  Pre-requisites ENG2D6'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ENG4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from various countries and cultures, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for college or the workplace.  Pre-requisites ENG3C ENG3U'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ENG4E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will analyse informational, graphic, and literary texts and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for workplace-related and practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language accurately and organizing ideas and information coherently. The course is intended to prepare students for the workplace and active citizenship.  Pre-requisites ENG3E ENG3C'}
{'name': 'English - AP', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ENG4U0', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'AP COURSE. This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently, selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace.  Guidance Message  Teacher recommendation required.  Pre-requisites ENG3U NBE3U'}
{'name': 'English', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ENG4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently, selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace.  Pre-requisites ENG3U'}
{'name': 'ENG4U6', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ENG4U6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently, selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace.  Pre-requisites ENG3U NBE3U'}
{'name': 'Studies in Literature (Japanese Manga and Anime focus)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ETS4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students will investigate and learn about different forms of literature. Students will explore and study the writings of Japanese manga and anime. As well comparisons of western comic books and superheros will be a theme.  Pre-requisites ENG3C ENG3U'}
{'name': 'Studies in Literature: (Japanese Manga and Anime focus)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'ETS4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is for students with a special interest in literature and literary criticism. The course may focus on themes, genres, time periods, or countries. Students will analyse a range of forms and stylistic elements of literary texts and respond personally, critically, and creatively to them. They will also assess critical interpretations, write analytical essays, and complete an independent study project.  Pre-requisites ENG3U'}
{'name': 'Ontario Secondary School Literacy Course', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'OLC4O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course is designed to help students acquire and demonstrate the cross-curricular literacy skills that are evaluated by the Ontario Secondary School Literacy Test (OSSLT). Students who complete the course successfully will meet the provincial literacy requirement for graduation. Students will read a variety of informational, narrative, and graphic texts and will produce a variety of forms of writing, including summaries, information paragraphs, opinion pieces, and news reports. Students will also maintain and manage a portfolio containing a record of their reading experiences and samples of their writing.  Guidance Message  By teacher referral only.'}
{'name': 'English as a Second Language', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ESLAO8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course builds on students previous education and language knowledge to introduce them to the English language and help them adjust to the diversity in their new environment. Students will use beginning English language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes. They will engage in short conversations using basic English language structures and simple sentence patterns; read short adapted texts; and write phrases and short sentences. The course also provides students with the knowledge and skills they need to begin to adapt to their new lives in Canada.'}
{'name': 'English as a Second Language', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ESLBO8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course extends students listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English for everyday and academic purposes. Students will participate in conversations in structured situations on a variety of familiar and new topics; read a variety of texts designed or adapted for English language learners; expand their knowledge of English grammatical structures and sentence patterns; and link English sentences to compose paragraphs. The course also supports students continuing adaptation to the Ontario school system by expanding their knowledge of diversity in their new province and country.'}
{'name': 'English as a Second Language', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ESLCO8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course further extends students skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English for a variety of everyday and academic purposes. Students will make short classroom oral presentations; read a variety of adapted and original texts in English; and write using a variety of text forms. As well, students will expand their academic vocabulary and their study skills to facilitate their transition to the mainstream school program. This course also introduces students to the rights and responsibilities inherent in Canadian citizenship, and to a variety of current Canadian issues.'}
{'name': 'English as a Second Language', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'ESLDO8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course prepares students to use English with increasing fluency and accuracy in classroom and social situations and to participate in Canadian society as informed citizens. Students will develop the oral-presentation, reading, and writing skills required for success in all school subjects. They will extend listening and speaking skills through participation in discussions and seminars; study and interpret a variety of grade-level texts; write narratives, articles, and summaries in English; and respond critically to a variety of print and media texts.'}
{'name': 'English as a Second Language', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'ESLEO8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with the skills and strategies they need to make the transition to college and university preparation courses in English and other secondary school disciplines. Students will be encouraged to develop independence in a range of academic tasks. They will participate in debates and lead classroom workshops; read and interpret literary works and academic texts; write essays, narratives, and reports; and apply a range of learning strategies and research skills effectively. Students will further develop their ability to respond critically to print and media texts.  Pre-requisites ESLDO8'}
{'name': 'Core French', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'FSF1D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides opportunities for students to communicate and interact in French with increasing independence, with a focus on familiar topics related to their daily lives. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills by using language-learning strategies introduced in the elementary Core French program, and will apply creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.'}
{'name': 'FSF1O2 Beginner French', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'FSF1O2', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Students must have less than 600 hours of french education to take this course.'}
{'name': 'Core French', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'FSF2D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides opportunities for students to communicate in French about personally relevant, familiar, and academic topics in real-life situations with increasing independence. Students will exchange information, ideas, and opinions with others in guided and increasingly spontaneous spoken interactions. Students will continue to develop their language knowledge and skills through the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. They will also increase their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will continue to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.  Pre-requisites FSF1D FSF1P'}
{'name': 'Core French', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'FSF3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course offers students extended opportunities to speak and interact in real-life situations in French with greater independence. Students will develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and exploring a variety of oral and written texts. They will continue to broaden their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning.  Pre-requisites FSF2D'}
{'name': 'Core French', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'FSF4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides extensive opportunities for students to speak and interact in French independently. Students will apply language-learning strategies in a wide variety of real-life situations, and will continue to develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and interacting with a variety of oral and written texts. Students will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning.  Pre-requisites FSF3U1 FSF3U'}
{'name': 'Learning Strategies', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'GLE1O9', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on learning strategies to help students become better, more independent learners. Students will learn how to develop and apply literacy and numeracy skills, personal management skills, and interpersonal and teamwork skills to improve their learning and achievement in school, the workplace, and the community.The course helps students build confidence and motivation to pursue opportunities for success in secondary school and beyond.  Guidance Message  This course is only for students who have an IEP.'}
{'name': 'Learning Strategies I - Skills for Success in Secondary School', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'GLS1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on learning strategies to help students become better, more independent learners. Students will learn how to develop and apply literacy and numeracy skills, personal management skills, and interpersonal and teamwork skills to improve their learning and achievement in school, the workplace, and the community.The course helps students build confidence and motivation to pursue opportunities for success in secondary school and beyond.'}
{'name': 'Learning Strategies I - Skills for Success in Secondary School (ESL)', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'GLS1O8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'ESL course. This course focuses on learning strategies to help students become better, more independent learners. Students will learn how to develop and apply literacy and numeracy skills, personal management skills, and interpersonal and teamwork skills to improve their learning and achievement in school, the workplace, and the community.The course helps students build confidence and motivation to pursue opportunities for success in secondary school and beyond.  Guidance Message  This course is for ESL A or ESL B students only.'}
{'name': 'Learning Strategies', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'GLE2O9', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on learning strategies to help students become better, more independent learners. Students will learn how to develop and apply literacy and numeracy skills, personal management skills, and interpersonal and teamwork skills to improve their learning and achievement in school, the workplace, and the community.The course helps students build confidence and motivation to pursue opportunities for success in secondary school and beyond.  Guidance Message  This course is only for students who have an IEP.'}
{'name': 'Advanced Learning Strategies', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'GLE3O9', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course improves students learning and personal-management skills, preparing them to make successful transitions to work, training, and/or postsecondary education destinations. Students will assess their learning abilities and use literacy, numeracy, and research skills and personal-management techniques to maximize their learning. Students will investigate trends and resources to support their postsecondary employment, training, and/or education choices and develop a plan to help them meet their learning and career goals.  Guidance Message  This course is only for students who have an IEP.'}
{'name': 'Advanced Learning Strategies', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'GLE4O9', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course improves students learning and personal-management skills, preparing them to make successful transitions to work, training, and/or postsecondary education destinations. Students will assess their learning abilities and use literacy, numeracy, and research skills and personal-management techniques to maximize their learning. Students will investigate trends and resources to support their postsecondary employment, training, and/or education choices and develop a plan to help them meet their learning and career goals.  Guidance Message  This course is only for students who have an IEP.'}
{'name': 'Advanced Learning Strategies: Skills for Success After Secondary School', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'GLS4O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course improves students learning and personal-management skills, preparing them to make successful transitions to work, training, and/or postsecondary education destinations. Students will assess their learning abilities and use literacy, numeracy, and research skills and personal-management techniques to maximize their learning. Students will investigate trends and resources to support their postsecondary employment, training, and/or education choices and develop a plan to help them meet their learning and career goals.'}
{'name': 'Mathematics', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'MTH1W1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to consolidate, and continue to develop, an understanding of mathematical concepts related to number sense and operations, algebra, measurement, geometry, data, probability, and financial literacy. Students will use mathematical processes, mathematical modelling, and coding to make sense of the mathematics they are learning and to apply their understanding to culturally responsive and relevant real-world situations. Students will continue to enhance their mathematical reasoning skills, including proportional reasoning, spatial reasoning, and algebraic reasoning, as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. Prerequisite: None'}
{'name': 'Mathematics Gifted', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'MTH1W6', 'credit': '1', 'description': ''}
{'name': 'Principles of Mathematics', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'MPM2D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relations and their applications; solve and apply linear systems; verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry; and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Pre-requisites MFM2P MPM1D'}
{'name': 'Principles of Mathematics - Enriched', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'MPM2D3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This enriched course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relations and their applications; solve and apply linear systems; verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry; and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Guidance Message  This is an enriched level course.  Pre-requisites MPM1D'}
{'name': 'Principles of Mathematics - Gifted', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'MPM2D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE.  This course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relations and their applications; solve and apply linear systems; verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry; and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Guidance Message  Gifted Students Only.  Pre-requisites MPM1D6'}
{'name': 'Foundations for College Mathematics', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MBF3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as a problem solving tool in the real world. Students will extend their understanding of quadratic relations; investigate situations involving exponential growth; solve problems involving compound interest; solve financial problems connected with vehicle ownership; develop their ability to reason by collecting, analysing, and evaluating data involving one variable; connect probability and statistics; and solve problems in geometry and trigonometry. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.  Pre-requisites MFM2P MPM2D'}
{'name': 'Functions and Applications', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MCF3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces basic features of the function by extending students experiences with quadratic relations. It focuses on quadratic, trigonometric, and exponential functions and their use in modelling real-world situations. Students will represent functions numerically, graphically, and algebraically; simplify expressions; solve equations; and solve problems relating to applications. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Pre-requisites MFM2P MPM2D'}
{'name': 'Functions', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MCR3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete and continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions; represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically; solve problems involving applications of functions; investigate inverse functions; and develop facility in determining equivalent algebraic expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Pre-requisites MCF3M MPM2D'}
{'name': 'Functions - Enriched', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MCR3U3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete and continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions; represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically; solve problems involving applications of functions; investigate inverse functions; and develop facility in determining equivalent algebraic expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.  Guidance Message  Grade 11 Enriched Mathematics. Teacher recommendation required.  Pre-requisites MPM2D'}
{'name': 'Functions - Gifted', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MCR3U6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete and continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions; represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically; solve problems involving applications of functions; investigate inverse functions; and develop facility in determining equivalent algebraic expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This is a gifted level course.  Pre-requisites MPM2D6'}
{'name': 'Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'MEL3E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as it is applied in the workplace and daily life. Students will solve problems associated with earning money, paying taxes, and making purchases; apply calculations of simple and compound interest in saving, investing, and borrowing; and calculate the costs of transportation and travel in a variety of situations. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.  Pre-requisites MAT2L MFM1P MFM2P MPM1D'}
{'name': 'Foundations for College Mathematics', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MAP4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to broaden their understanding of real-world applications of mathematics. Students will analyse data using statistical methods; solve problems involving applications of geometry and trigonometry; solve financial problems connected with annuities, budgets, and renting or owning accommodation; simplify expressions; and solve equations. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This course prepares students for college programs in areas such as business, health sciences, and human services, and for certain skilled trades.  Pre-requisites MBF3C MCF3M MCR3U'}
{'name': 'Calculus and Vectors - AP', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MCV4U0', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This advanced placement course builds on students previous experience with functions and their developing understanding of rates of change. Students will solve problems involving geometric and algebraic representations of vectors and representations of lines and planes in three-dimensional space; broaden their understanding of rates of change to include the derivatives of polynomial, sinusoidal, exponential, rational, and radical functions; and apply these concepts and skills to the modelling of real-world relationships. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended for students who choose to pursue careers in fields such as science, engineering, economics, and some areas of business, including those students who will be required to take a university-level calculus, linear algebra, or physics course.  Guidance Message  Students must take MHF4U0 to take this AP course.  Co-requisites MHF4U0'}
{'name': 'Calculus and Vectors', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MCV4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course builds on students previous experience with functions and their developing understanding of rates of change. Students will solve problems involving geometric and algebraic representations of vectors and representations of lines and planes in three-dimensional space; broaden their understanding of rates of change to include the derivatives of polynomial, sinusoidal, exponential, rational, and radical functions; and apply these concepts and skills to the modelling of real-world relationships. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended for students who choose to pursue careers in fields such as science, engineering, economics, and some areas of business, including those students who will be required to take a university-level calculus, linear algebra, or physics course.  Pre-requisites MHF4U'}
{'name': 'Mathematics of Data Management', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MDM4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course broadens students understanding of mathematics as it relates to managing data. Students will apply methods for organizing and analysing large amounts of information; solve problems involving probability and statistics; and carry out a culminating investigation that integrates statistical concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. Students planning to enter university programs in business, the social sciences, and the humanities will find this course of particular interest.  Pre-requisites MCF3M MCR3U'}
{'name': 'Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MEL4E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as it is applied in the workplace and daily life. Students will investigate questions involving the use of statistics; apply the concept of probability to solve problems involving familiar situations; investigate accommodation costs, create household budgets, and prepare a personal income tax return; use proportional reasoning; estimate and measure; and apply geometric concepts to create designs. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.  Pre-requisites MEL3E'}
{'name': 'Advanced Functions - AP', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MHF4U0', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This advanced placement course extends students experience with functions. Students will investigate the properties of polynomial, rational, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions; develop techniques for combining functions; broaden their understanding of rates of change; and develop facility in applying these concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended both for students taking the Calculus and Vectors course as a prerequisite for a university program and for those wishing to consolidate their understanding of mathematics before proceeding to any one of a variety of university programs.  Guidance Message  Students must take MCV4U0 to take this AP course.  Pre-requisites MCR3U MCT4C Co-requisites MCV4U0'}
{'name': 'Advanced Functions', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'MHF4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course extends students experience with functions. Students will investigate the properties of polynomial, rational, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions; develop techniques for combining functions; broaden their understanding of rates of change; and develop facility in applying these concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended both for students taking the Calculus and Vectors course as a prerequisite for a university program and for those wishing to consolidate their understanding of mathematics before proceeding to any one of a variety of university programs.  Pre-requisites MCR3U MCT4C'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (Female)', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'PAF1OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, self-defence etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.  Guidance Message  Note: Students can choose one of PAF1OF OR PPL1OF only. All students must purchase an Albert Campbell gym uniform. T-shirts are $15 and shorts are $20 for a total of $35. All grade 9 classes participate in self-defense unit. The fee is $25.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (Co-Ed)', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'PPL1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Co-ed grade 9 physical and health education. This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Students will learn movement skills and principles, ways to improve personal fitness and physical competence, and safety and injury prevention. They will investigate issues related to healthy sexuality and the use and abuse of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs, and will participate in activities designed to develop goal-setting, communication, and social skills.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (female)', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'PPL1OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Students will learn movement skills and principles, ways to improve personal fitness and physical competence, and safety and injury prevention. They will investigate issues related to healthy sexuality and the use and abuse of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs, and will participate in activities designed to develop goal-setting, communication, and social skills.  Guidance Message  Note: Students can choose one of PAF1OF OR PPL1OF only. All students must purchase an Albert Campbell gym uniform. T-shirts are $15 and shorts are $20 for a total of $35. All grade 9 classes participate in self-defense unit. The fee is $25.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (male)', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'PPL1OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Students will learn movement skills and principles, ways to improve personal fitness and physical competence, and safety and injury prevention. They will investigate issues related to healthy sexuality and the use and abuse of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs, and will participate in activities designed to develop goal-setting, communication, and social skills.  Guidance Message  All students must purchase an Albert Campbell gym uniform. T-shirts are $15 and shorts are $20 for a total of $35. All grade 9 classes participate in self-defense unit. The fee is $25.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (Co-Ed)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PAF2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Fitness and Weight Training: Co-Ed'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (Female)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PAF2OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine skills; participation in a variety of activities that enhance personal competence, fitness, and health; examination of issues related to healthy sexuality, healthy eating, substance use and abuse; and the use of informed decision-making, conflict resolution, and social skills in making personal choices.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (male)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PAF2OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively.'}
{'name': 'Racquet Sports (co-ed)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PAI2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable individual and small group activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine individual and small group skills (e.g. racquet sports, cross country skiing, orienteering, etc), participation in a variety of activities that enhance personal competence, fitness and health and the examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (Co- Ed)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PPL2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Co-ed grade 10 Phys ed. This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine skills; participation in a variety of activities that enhance personal competence, fitness, and health; examination of issues related to healthy sexuality, healthy eating, substance use and abuse; and the use of informed decision-making, conflict resolution, and social skills in making personal choices.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (female)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PPL2OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine skills; participation in a variety of activities that enhance personal competence, fitness, and health; examination of issues related to healthy sexuality, healthy eating, substance use and abuse; and the use of informed decision-making, conflict resolution, and social skills in making personal choices.  Guidance Message  All students must have Albert Campbell gym uniforms. T-shirts are $15 and shorts are $20 for a total of $35.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (male)', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'PPL2OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that promote lifelong healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine skills; participation in a variety of activities that enhance personal competence, fitness, and health; examination of issues related to healthy sexuality, healthy eating, substance use and abuse; and the use of informed decision-making, conflict resolution, and social skills in making personal choices.  Guidance Message  All students must have Albert Campbell gym uniforms. T-shirts are $15 and shorts are $20 for a total of $35.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities Co-Ed', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PAF3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Grade 11 Fitness and Weight Training: Co-Ed'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (female)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PAF3OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, self-defence etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (male)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PAF3OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, self-defence etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education ( Co-Ed)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PPL3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Co-ed, gd. 11 phys. ed. This course focuses on the development of a healthy lifestyle and participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will be encouraged to develop personal competence in a variety of movement skills and will be given opportunities to practise goal-setting, decision-making, social, and interpersonal skills. Students will also study the components of healthy relationships, reproductive health, mental health, and personal safety.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (female)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PPL3OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the development of a healthy lifestyle and participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will be encouraged to develop personal competence in a variety of movement skills and will be given opportunities to practise goal-setting, decision-making, social, and interpersonal skills. Students will also study the components of healthy relationships, reproductive health, mental health, and personal safety.  Guidance Message  All students participate in a Boxing unit. The fee is $15.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (male)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'PPL3OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the development of a healthy lifestyle and participation in a variety of enjoyable physical activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will be encouraged to develop personal competence in a variety of movement skills and will be given opportunities to practise goal-setting, decision-making, social, and interpersonal skills. Students will also study the components of healthy relationships, reproductive health, mental health, and personal safety.  Guidance Message  All students participate in a Boxing unit. The fee is $15.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities Co Ed', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PAF4O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, selfdefense etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (female)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PAF4OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, self-defence etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Personal and Fitness Activities (male)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PAF4OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course emphasizes regular participation in a variety of enjoyable fitness activities that promote life-long healthy active living. Student learning will include the application of movement principles to refine their skills, participation in a variety of fitness activities (e.g. aerobics, weight training, jazzercise, self-defence etc) that enhance personal competence and health, and examination of issues related to healthy living. Reference should be made to the Healthy Active Living Education open course descriptions for Grades 10, 11 and 12 for health areas of study.'}
{'name': 'Leadership: Recreation and Healthy Active Living', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PLF4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to explore the benefits of lifelong participation in active recreation and healthy leisure and to develop the leadership and coordinating skills needed to plan, organize, and safely implement recreational events and other activities related to healthy, active living. Students will also learn how to promote the benefits of healthy, active living to others through mentoring and assisting them in making informed decisions that enhance their well-being. The course will prepare students for university programs in physical education and health and kinesiology and for college and university programs in recreation and leisure management, fitness and health promotion, and fitness leadership.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (Co Ed)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PPL4O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Co-Ed gd 12 Phys. Ed. This course focuses on the development of a personalized approach to healthy active living through participation in a variety of sports and recreational activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will develop and implement personal physical fitness plans. In addition, they will be given opportunities to refine their decision making, conflict-resolution, and interpersonal skills, with a view to enhancing their mental health and their relationships with others.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (female)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PPL4OF', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the development of a personalized approach to healthy active living through participation in a variety of sports and recreational activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will develop and implement personal physical fitness plans. In addition, they will be given opportunities to refine their decision making, conflict-resolution, and interpersonal skills, with a view to enhancing their mental health and their relationships with others.'}
{'name': 'Healthy Active Living Education (male)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PPL4OM', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the development of a personalized approach to healthy active living through participation in a variety of sports and recreational activities that have the potential to engage students interest throughout their lives. Students will develop and implement personal physical fitness plans. In addition, they will be given opportunities to refine their decision making, conflict-resolution, and interpersonal skills, with a view to enhancing their mental health and their relationships with others.'}
{'name': 'Introductory Kinesiology', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'PSK4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the study of human movement and of systems, factors and principles involved in human development. Students will learn about the effects of physical activity on health and performance, the evolution of physical activity and sport, and the physiological, psychological, and social factors that influence an individual’s participation in physical activity and sport. The course prepares students for university programs in physical education and health, kinesiology, health sciences, health studies, recreation, and sports administration.  Pre-requisites SBI3U SCH3U SPH3U SNC3M PPL3O PPZ3C PPL4O'}
{'name': 'Science', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'SNC1D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity.'}
{'name': 'Science - Gifted', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'SNC1D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE: This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity.  Guidance Message  This is a gifted course.'}
{'name': 'Science - ESL', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'SNC1D8', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This ESL sensitive course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity.  Guidance Message  This course is for ESL students only.'}
{'name': 'Science', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'SNC2D1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals and plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid/base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter.  Pre-requisites SNC1D SNC1P'}
{'name': 'Science - Enriched', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'SNC2D3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This enriched course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals and plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid/base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter.  Guidance Message  This is an Enriched course.  Pre-requisites SNC1D3 SNC1D1'}
{'name': 'Science - Gifted', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'SNC2D6', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'GIFTED COURSE.  This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals and plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid–base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter.  Guidance Message  GIFTED STUDENTS ONLY.  Pre-requisites SNC1D6'}
{'name': 'Biology', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SBI3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the processes that occur in biological systems. Students will learn concepts and theories as they conduct investigations in the areas of cellular biology, microbiology, genetics, the anatomy of mammals, and the structure of plants and their role in the natural environment. Emphasis will be placed on the practical application of concepts, and on the skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields.  Pre-requisites SNC2D SNC2P'}
{'name': 'Biology', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SBI3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course furthers students understanding of the processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biodiversity; evolution; genetic processes; the structure and function of animals; and the anatomy, growth, and function of plants. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study, and helps students refine skills related to scientific investigation.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Biology - Enriched', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SBI3U3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This is an enriched level course. This course furthers students understanding of the processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biodiversity; evolution; genetic processes; the structure and function of animals; and the anatomy, growth, and function of plants. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study, and helps students refine skills related to scientific investigation.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Chemistry', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SCH3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of the properties of chemicals and chemical bonds; chemical reactions and quantitative relationships in those reactions; solutions and solubility; and atmospheric chemistry and the behaviour of gases. Students will further develop their analytical skills and investigate the qualitative and quantitative properties of matter, as well as the impact of some common chemical reactions on society and the environment.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Chemistry - Enriched', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SCH3U3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This enriched level course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of the properties of chemicals and chemical bonds; chemical reactions and quantitative relationships in those reactions; solutions and solubility; and atmospheric chemistry and the behaviour of gases. Students will further develop their analytical skills and investigate the qualitative and quantitative properties of matter, as well as the impact of some common chemical reactions on society and the environment.  Guidance Message  This is an enriched level course. Teacher recommendation required.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Physics', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SPH3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course develops students understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore kinematics, with an emphasis on linear motion; different kinds of forces; energy transformations; the properties of mechanical waves and sound; and electricity and magnetism. They will enhance their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics. In addition, they will analyse the interrelationships between physics and technology, and consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Physics - Enriched', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SPH3U3', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'ENRICHED COURSE. This course develops students understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore kinematics, with an emphasis on linear motion; different kinds of forces; energy transformations; the properties of mechanical waves and sound; and electricity and magnetism. They will enhance their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics. In addition, they will analyse the interrelationships between physics and technology, and consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.  Guidance Message  Teacher recommendation required.  Pre-requisites SNC2D'}
{'name': 'Environmental Science', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SVN3E9', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'Environmental science; special education programming  Pre-requisites SNC1D SNC1P SNC1L SNC2L'}
{'name': 'Environmental Science', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'SVN3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with the fundamental knowledge of and skills relating to environmental science that will help them succeed in life after secondary school. Students will explore a range of topics, including the role of science in addressing contemporary environmental challenges; the impact of the environment on human health; sustainable agriculture and forestry; the reduction and management of waste; and the conservation of energy. Students will increase their scientific and environmental literacy and examine the interrelationships between science, the environment, and society in a variety of areas.  Pre-requisites SNC2D SNC2P'}
{'name': 'Biology', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SBI4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with the opportunity for in-depth study of the concepts and processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biochemistry, metabolic processes, molecular genetics, homeostasis, and population dynamics. Emphasis will be placed on the achievement of detailed knowledge and the refinement of skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields.  Pre-requisites SBI3U'}
{'name': 'Chemistry', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SCH4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to develop an understanding of chemistry through the study of matter and qualitative analysis, organic chemistry, electrochemistry, chemical calculations, and chemistry as it relates to the quality of the environment. Students will use a variety of laboratory techniques, develop skills in data collection and scientific analysis, and communicate scientific information using appropriate terminology. Emphasis will be placed on the role of chemistry in daily life and the effects of technological applications and processes on society and the environment.  Pre-requisites SNC2D SNC2P'}
{'name': 'Chemistry - AP', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SCH4U0', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'AP COURSE: This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of organic chemistry, the structure and properties of matter, energy changes and rates of reaction, equilibrium in chemical systems, and electrochemistry. Students will further develop their problem-solving and investigation skills as they investigate chemical processes, and will refine their ability to communicate scientific information. Emphasis will be placed on the importance of chemistry in everyday life and on evaluating the impact of chemical technology on the environment.  Guidance Message  This is an AP level course.  Pre-requisites SCH3U'}
{'name': 'Chemistry', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SCH4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of organic chemistry, the structure and properties of matter, energy changes and rates of reaction, equilibrium in chemical systems, and electrochemistry. Students will further develop their problem-solving and investigation skills as they investigate chemical processes, and will refine their ability to communicate scientific information. Emphasis will be placed on the importance of chemistry in everyday life and on evaluating the impact of chemical technology on the environment.  Pre-requisites SCH3U'}
{'name': 'Physics', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SPH4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course develops students understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore these concepts with respect to motion; mechanical, electrical, electromagnetic, energy transformation, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems; and the operation of commonly used tools and machines. They will develop their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics and solve both assigned problems and those emerging from their investigations. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.  Pre-requisites SNC2D SNC2P'}
{'name': 'Physics - AP', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SPH4U0', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This AP course enables students to deepen their understanding of physics concepts and theories. Students will continue their exploration of energy transformations and the forces that affect motion, and will investigate electrical, gravitational, and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. Students will also explore the wave nature of light, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. They will further develop their scientific investigation skills, learning, for example, how to analyse, qualitatively and quantitatively, data relating to a variety of physics concepts and principles. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.  Guidance Message  This AP course is Physics 1 and 2 (algebra focus).  Pre-requisites SPH3U'}
{'name': 'Physics', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'SPH4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to deepen their understanding of physics concepts and theories. Students will continue their exploration of energy transformations and the forces that affect motion, and will investigate electrical, gravitational, and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. Students will also explore the wave nature of light, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. They will further develop their scientific investigation skills, learning, for example, how to analyse, qualitatively and quantitatively, data related to a variety of physics concepts and principles. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.  Pre-requisites SPH3U'}
{'name': 'Food and Nutrition', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'HFN1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on guidelines for making nutritious food choices. Students will investigate factors that influence food choices, including beliefs, attitudes, current trends, traditional eating patterns, food marketing strategies, and individual needs. Students will also explore the environmental impact of a variety of food choices at the local and global level. The course provides students with opportunities to develop food preparation skills and introduces them to the use of social science research methods in the area of food and nutrition.'}
{'name': 'Exploring Family Studies', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'HIF2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course explores, within the context of families, some of the fundamental challenges people face: how to meet basic needs, how to relate to others, how to manage resources, and how to become responsible members of society. Students will explore adolescent development and will have opportunities to develop interpersonal, decision-making, and practical skills related to daily life. They will learn about the diverse ways in which families function in Canada and will use research skills as they explore topics related to individual and family needs and resources.'}
{'name': 'Food and Culture', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HFC3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the flavours, aromas, cooking techniques, foods, and cultural traditions of world cuisines. Students will explore the origins of and developments in diverse food traditions. They will demonstrate the ability to cook with ingredients and equipment from a variety of cultures, compare food-related etiquette in many countries and cultures, and explain how Canadian food choices and traditions have been influenced by other cultures. Students will develop practical skills and apply social science research methods while investigating foods and food practices from around the world.  Guidance Message  New course!'}
{'name': 'Understanding Fashion', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HNC3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to the world of fashion. Students will gain an understanding of theories related to fashion trends and of how culture, media, fashion cycles, retailing, and social and environmental factors influence fashion trends and consumer behaviour. Students will use various tools, technologies, and techniques safely and correctly to create fashion items. They will apply knowledge of fibres, fabrics, and the elements and principles of design when creating and assessing fashion-related products. Students will develop research skills as they investigate topics related to fashion.'}
{'name': 'Raising Healthy Children', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HPC3O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the skills and knowledge parents, guardians, and caregivers need, with particular emphasis on maternal health, pregnancy, birth, and the early years of human development (birth to six years old). Through study and practical experience, students will learn how to meet the developmental needs of young children, communicate with them, and effectively guide their early behaviour. Students will develop their research skills through investigations related to caregiving and child rearing.'}
{'name': 'World Religions: Beliefs, Issues and Religious Traditions', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HRT3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with opportunities to explore various world religions and belief traditions. Students will develop knowledge of the terms and concepts relevant to this area of study, will examine the ways in which religions and belief traditions meet various human needs, and will learn about the relationship between belief and action. They will examine sacred writings and teachings, consider how concepts of time and place influence different religions and belief traditions, and develop research and inquiry skills related to the study of human expressions of belief.'}
{'name': 'Introduction to Anthropology, Psych', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HSP3U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with opportunities to think critically about theories, questions, and issues related to anthropology, psychology, and sociology. Students will develop an understanding of the approaches and research methods used by social scientists. They will be given opportunities to explore theories from a variety of perspectives, to conduct social science, and to become familiar with current thinking on a range of issues within the three disciplines.  Pre-requisites ENG2D CHC2D'}
{'name': 'Philosophy: The Big Questions', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'HZB3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course encourages exploration of philosophy’s big questions, such as: What is a meaningful life? What separates right from wrong? What constitutes knowledge? What makes something beautiful? What is a just society? Students will develop critical thinking and philosophical reasoning skills as they identify and analyse the responses of philosophers to the big questions and formulate their own response to them. Students will explore the relevance of philosophical questions to society and to their everyday life. They will develop research and inquiry skills as they investigate various topics in philosophy.'}
{'name': 'Nutrition and Health', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HFA4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the relationship between nutrition and health at different stages of life and on global issues related to food production. Students will investigate the role of nutrition in health and disease and assess strategies for promoting food security and environmental responsibility. Students will learn about healthy eating, expand their repertoire of food-preparation techniques, and refine their ability to use social science research and inquiry methods to investigate topics related to nutrition and health.  Pre-requisites ENG3C ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HSB4U HHS4U HSB4U1 HHG4M CPW4U CIA4U HZT4U CLN4U CGW4U CGW4C'}
{'name': 'Nutrition and Health', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HFA4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course examines the relationships between food, energy balance, and nutritional status; the nutritional needs of individuals at different stages of life; and the role of nutrition in health and disease. Students will evaluate nutrition-related trends and will determine how food choices can promote food security and environmental responsibility. Students will learn about healthy eating, expand their repertoire of food-preparation techniques, and develop their social science research skills by investigating issues related to nutrition and health.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HHS4U HSB4U CPW4U CIA4U CLN4U CGW4U HHG4M'}
{'name': 'Human Development Throughout the Lifespan', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HHG4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course offers a multidisciplinary approach to the study of human development throughout the lifespan. Students will learn about a range of theoretical perspectives on human development. They will examine threats to healthy development as well as protective factors that promote resilience. Students will learn about physical, cognitive, and social-emotional development from the prenatal period through old age and will develop their research and inquiry skills by investigating issues related to human development.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CHW3M CGF3M HRT3M HZB3M HHS4U HSB4U HFA4U CPW4U CIA4U HZT4U CLN4U CGW4U ENG3C'}
{'name': 'The World of Fashion', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HNB4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course gives students the opportunity to explore the world of fashion. Students will learn how to create a fashion product using various tools, techniques and technologies while developing their practical skills. Students will learn about various factors that affect the global fashion industry, the needs of specialized markets, and the impact of fibre and fabric production and care. In addition, they will learn about social and historical influences on fashion. Students will apply research skills when investigating aspects of the fashion world.  Pre-requisites ENG3C ENG3U ENG4U HNC3C CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HHS4U HSB4U HFA4U HHG4M CPW4U CIA4U HZT4U CLN4U CGW4U CGW4C'}
{'name': 'Challenge and Change in Society', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HSB4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the use of social science theories, perspectives, and methodologies to investigate and explain shifts in knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and behaviour and their impact on society. Students will critically analyse how and why cultural, social, and behavioural patterns change over time. They will explore the ideas of social theorists and use those ideas to analyse causes of and responses to challenges such as technological change, deviance, and global inequalities. Students will explore ways in which social science research methods can be used to study social change.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M CGF3M CHW3M HRT3M HZB3M HHS4U HFA4U HHG4M CPW4U CIA4U HZT4U CLN4U CGW4U'}
{'name': 'Philosophy: Questions and Theories', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'HZT4U1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to acquire an understanding of the nature of philosophy and philosophical reasoning skills and to develop and apply their knowledge and skills while exploring specialized branches of philosophy (the course will cover at least three of the following branches: metaphysics, ethics, epistemology, philosophy of science, social and political philosophy, aesthetics). Students will develop critical thinking and philosophical reasoning skills as they formulate and evaluate arguments related to a variety of philosophical questions and theories. They will also develop research and inquiry skills related to the study and practice of philosophy.  Pre-requisites ENG3U ENG4U CGD3M CIE3M HRT3M HZB3M CGF3M CHW3M HHS4U HSB4U HFA4U HHG4M CPW4U CIA4U CLN4U CGW4U'}
{'name': 'Exploring Technologies', 'grade': ' 9', 'course': 'TIJ1O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further explore and develop technological knowledge and skills introduced in the elementary science and technology program. Students will be given the opportunity to design and create products and/or provide services related to the various technological areas or industries, working with a variety of tools, equipment, and software commonly used in industry. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues, and will begin to explore secondary and postsecondary education and training pathways leading to careers in technology-related fields.'}
{'name': 'Construction Technology', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'TCJ2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to building materials and processes through opportunities to design and build various construction projects. Students will learn to create and read working drawings; become familiar with common construction materials, components, and processes; and perform a variety of fabrication, assembly, and finishing operations. They will use a variety of hand and power tools and apply knowledge of imperial and metric systems of measurement, as appropriate. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to construction technology, and will explore secondary and postsecondary pathways leading to careers in the industry.'}
{'name': 'Technological Design', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'TDJ2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with opportunities to apply a design process to meet a variety of technological challenges. Students will research projects, create designs, build models and/or prototypes, and assess products and/or processes using appropriate tools, techniques, and strategies. Student projects may include designs for homes, vehicles, bridges, robotic arms, clothing, or other products. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to technological design, and will learn about secondary and postsecondary education and training leading to careers in the field.'}
{'name': 'Computer Engineering Technology', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'TEJ2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to computer systems, networking, and interfacing, as well as electronics and robotics. Students will assemble, repair, and configure computers with various types of operating systems and application software. Students will build small electronic circuits and write computer programs to control simple peripheral devices or robots. Students will also develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues, and will learn about secondary and postsecondary pathways and career opportunities in computer technology.'}
{'name': 'Communications Technology', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'TGJ2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to communications technology from a media perspective. Students will work in the areas of TV/video and movie production, radio and audio production, print and graphic communications, photography, and interactive new media and animation. Student projects may include computer-based activities such as creating videos, editing photos, working with audio, cartooning, developing animations, and designing web pages. Students will also develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to communications technology, and will explore secondary and postsecondary education and training pathways and career opportunities in the various communications technology fields.'}
{'name': 'Transportation Technology', 'grade': '10', 'course': 'TTJ2O1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course introduces students to the service and maintenance of vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft. Students will develop knowledge and skills related to the construction and operation of vehicle/craft systems and learn maintenance and repair techniques. Student projects may include the construction of a self-propelled vehicle or craft, engine service, tire/wheel service, electrical/battery service, and proper body care. Students will develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues, and will explore secondary and postsecondary pathways leading to careers in the transportation industry.'}
{'name': 'Construction Engineering Technology', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TCJ3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course focuses on the development of knowledge and skills related to residential construction. Students will gain hands-on experience using a variety of construction materials, processes, tools, and equipment; learn about building design and planning construction projects; create and interpret working drawings and sections; and learn how the Ontario Building Code and other regulations and standards apply to construction projects. Students will also develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to construction technology, and will explore career opportunities in the field.'}
{'name': 'Technological Design: Architectural Design', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TDA3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course covers many aspects of architectural technology from foundations through to finishing. Environmental factors are considered when examining residential and industrial architecture. Computer Aided Drafting and Design software will be introduced and used as a tool by students to develop solutions to design problems.'}
{'name': 'Technological Design: Robotics and Control System Design', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TDR3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with opportunities to apply the principles of technological design to challenges in communications, manufacturing, electronics, transportation, architecture, industrial and consumer products, health and safety equipment, and environmental services. Students will identify user needs, estimate labour and material costs, analyze material characteristics, and illustrate design solutions, using traditional and computer-based methods. They will also acquire the basic design skills required for post-secondary studies in engineering manufacturing, architecture, and construction. For specific focus options please see below. Recommended Preparation: Technological Design, Grade 10, Open - 4M: This course provides students with opportunities to solve problems in design through the use of technical drawings, model building, testing, and marketing. Students will research, design, and test solutions for residential or commercial architecture, industrial engineering, and'}
{'name': 'Computer Technology: Computer Repair', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TEC3E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to computer hardware. The focus of this course is a practical hands-on approach to proper maintenance and repair of desktop and laptop computers. Students will gain a better understanding of operating systems and proper software installation practices.'}
{'name': 'Computer Engineering Technology', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TEJ3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course examines computer systems and control of external devices. Students will assemble computers and small networks by installing and configuring appropriate hardware and software. Students will develop knowledge and skills in electronics, robotics, programming, and networks, and will build systems that use computer programs and interfaces to control and/or respond to external devices. Students will develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues, and will learn about college and university programs leading to careers in computer technology.'}
{'name': 'Communications Technology.', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TGJ3M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course examines communications technology from a media perspective. Students will develop knowledge and skills as they design and produce media projects in the areas of live, recorded, and graphic communications. These areas may include TV, video, and movie production; radio and audio production; print and graphic communications; photography; digital imaging; broadcast journalism; and interactive new media. Students will also develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues, and will explore college and university programs and career opportunities in the various communications technology fields.'}
{'name': 'Transportation Technology (2 credits)', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TTA3C1', 'credit': '2', 'description': '2 credit auto servicing grade 11 course in the school. Students will assume a role as an auto service technician , operating and maintaining a service station and explore new technologies and designs in the auto industry.'}
{'name': 'Transportation Technology', 'grade': '11', 'course': 'TTJ3C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to develop technical knowledge and skills as they study, test, service, and repair engine, electrical, suspension, brake, and steering systems on vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft. Students will develop communication and teamwork skills through practical tasks, using a variety of tools and equipment. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to transportation, and will learn about apprenticeship and college programs leading to careers in the transportation industry.'}
{'name': 'Construction Engineering Technology', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TCJ4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to residential construction and to explore light commercial construction. Students will gain hands-on experience using a variety of materials, processes, tools, and equipment, and will learn more about building design and project planning. They will continue to create and interpret construction drawings and will extend their knowledge of construction terminology and of relevant building codes and regulations, as well as health and safety standards and practices. Students will also focus on environmental and societal issues related to construction engineering technology, and will explore career opportunities in the field.  Pre-requisites TCJ3C'}
{'name': 'Technological Design: Architectural Design', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TDA4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course covers many aspects of architectural technology from foundations through to finishing. Environmental factors are considered when examining residential and industrial architecture. Computer Aided Drafting and Design software will be introduced and used as a tool by students to develop solutions to design problems.  Pre-requisites TDA3M'}
{'name': 'Technological Design: Robotics and Control System Design', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TDR4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course provides students with opportunities to apply the principles of technological design to challenges in communications, manufacturing, electronics, transportation, architecture, industrial and consumer products, health and safety equipment, and environmental services. Students will identify user needs, estimate labour and material costs, analyze material characteristics, and illustrate design solutions, using traditional and computer-based methods. They will also acquire the basic design skills required for post-secondary studies in engineering manufacturing, architecture, and construction. For specific focus options please see below. Recommended Preparation: Technological Design, Grade 10, Open - 4M: This course provides students with opportunities to solve problems in design through the use of technical drawings, model building, testing, and marketing. Students will research, design, and test solutions for residential or commercial architecture, industrial engineering, and  Pre-requisites TDR3M'}
{'name': 'Computer Technology: Computer Repair', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TEC4E1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to computer hardware. The focus of this course is a practical hands-on approach to proper maintenance and repair of desktop and laptop computers. Students will gain a better understanding of operating systems and proper software installation practices.  Pre-requisites TEC3E1'}
{'name': 'Computer Engineering Technology', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TEJ4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course extends students understanding of computer systems and computer interfacing with external devices. Students will assemble computer systems by installing and configuring appropriate hardware and software, and will learn more about fundamental concepts of electronics, robotics, programming, and networks. Students will examine related environmental and societal issues, and will explore postsecondary pathways leading to careers in computer technology.  Pre-requisites TEJ3M'}
{'name': 'Communications Technology.', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TGJ4M1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop media knowledge and skills while designing and producing projects in the areas of live, recorded, and graphic communications. Students may work in the areas of TV, video, and movie production; radio and audio production; print and graphic communications; photography; digital imaging; broadcast journalism; and interactive new media. Students will also expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues related to communications technology, and will investigate career opportunities and challenges in a rapidly changing technological environment.  Pre-requisites TGJ3M'}
{'name': 'Transportation Technology (2 credits)', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TTA4C1', 'credit': '2', 'description': '2 credit auto service grade 12 within the school. Students will assume a role as an auto service technician , operating and maintaining a service station and explore new technologies and designs in the auto industry.'}
{'name': 'Transportation Technology', 'grade': '12', 'course': 'TTJ4C1', 'credit': '1', 'description': 'This course enables students to further develop technical knowledge and skills as they study, test, service, and repair engine management systems; powertrains; steering/control, suspension, brake, and body systems on vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft; and/or small-engine products. Students will refine communication and teamwork skills through practical tasks, using a variety of tools and equipment. Students will expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues related to transportation and their knowledge of apprenticeship and college programs leading to careers in the transportation industry.  Pre-requisites TTJ3C'}
